---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/the-world/magical-hierarchy/","created":"2025-10-20T17:40:23.969-04:00","updated":"2025-10-25T19:27:25.790-04:00"}
---

> "Have you *heard* about what transpired at last week's Midnight Gala? I tell you, I was sitting but three seats down from that [[The World/Divine Aspects/Stravalli\|Stravalli]] boy—fifth in line for the house seat if I recall—as he attempted to ***seduce*** the young [[Thjorvidson\|Thjorvidson]] debutante from across the table! I'd say I pity the poor girl, but with a casual wave of her wrist, she sent a nearby platter of escargot careening toward the boy, toppling him from his seat! I'll never understand those dragons, as even on the ground, staring up at his assailant, I'd swear that [[The World/Divine Aspects/Stravalli\|Stravalli]] boy looked even more taken with her than when the night began!"
> 
> *Letter to Lady [[Yevessa Ironhide\|Yevessa Ironhide]], marked **URGENT, OPEN IMMEDIATELY***
> *Lady [[Garzokk Shodok-Garb\|Garzokk Shodok-Garb]], Low Lady of the Great [[Shodok-Garb\|Shodok-Garb]] House of [[Nations/Jkaverstelle\|Jkaverstelle]], 3701 ASC* 

Magic rarely defines a person in [[The World/Dor'Balar\|Dor'Balar]]. People are professors first, wizards second; priests first, clerics second; aristocrats first, sorcerers second. Most magic users can only cast a few spells per week, and so, the presence of magic will almost always be less important than who they are as people, their job, etc.. With this in mind, magic does still have social connotations associated with it, giving some power and status, and others reproach and infamy. This page separates the cultural understanding of magic users into three sections: High Class, Lower Class, and Taboo; but these will vary based on location. E.g., while sorcerers are more highly respected in aristocratic [[Nations/Jkaverstelle\|Jkaverstelle]], the people of [[Nations/Anbuur\|Anbuur]] may venerate clerics and paladins for their connection with the [[Church of the Divine Aspects\|Church of the Divine Aspects]]. This page is just a general overview of the vibes felt for these diverse set of magic users.
# High Class

Sorcerers are among the most highly respected magic users, their arcane bloodline proof of their noble pedigree. Aristocrats from around [[The World/Dor'Balar\|Dor'Balar]] boast of the magic running through their veins, using their lineage as a mandate for their right to privilege. For instance, of the Great Houses of Jkaverstelle and her royal family, five of the six of them have sorcerous origins dating back centuries. Moreso than the mystical abilities afforded to them by their lineage, sorcerous power acts primarily as status symbol for those lucky enough to be born into the aristocracy.

Clerics, despite the modesty many of them engage in, are highly respected in [[The World/Dor'Balar\|Dor'Balar]]. As an institution, the [[Church of the Divine Aspects\|Church of the Divine Aspects]] has great sway over the continent, particularly over [[Nations/Anbuur\|Anbuur]] where it's based. Clerical magic is the most common in the continent, and due to its ability to heal the sick and wounded, is the most venerated by common folk.

Paladins, similar to clerics, are well loved throughout the lands. As oath-bound warriors of the gods, paladins evoke images of the brave heroes of [[The World/Dor'Balar\|Dor'Balar]] such as the [[Heroes of the Hawk\|Heroes of the Hawk]]. Although they're definitely more militant than their clerical siblings, paladins enjoy all the same prestige of being divine servants.

Bards, sitting at the lowest rung of the "High Class" magic users, are still respected by aristocrats and commoners alike. Typically requiring a patron to fund their endeavors, bards rub enough elbows with the upper echelon of society to garner respect beyond the common laborer. 
# Lower Class

Druids—despite embodying the virtues of [[The World/Divine Aspects/Ignomer\|Ignomer]], Goddess of Nature—are not as respected as clerics or paladins. Their often ascetic lifestyles conflict with the structure imposed by the [[Church of the Divine Aspects\|Church of the Divine Aspects]], so they typically exist outside society in communes of other druids. As such, druids are rarely seen in "civilized" society.

Rangers, similar to druids, have a deep connection to nature. They exist closer to society and are therefore more accessible than druids, and are often hired as guides and experts on local wildlife. Even so, rangers are still among the lower class of working magic users. 

Wizards are rare in [[The World/Dor'Balar\|Dor'Balar]] due largely to the steep barrier of entry. Unlike sorcerers and clerics who are given their gifts, wizards work for years to hone their magical ability; and considering how few spells magic users can cast in the first place, few bother learning the craft. With that said, wizardry often provides the only method for those of low class to participate in magic; and because of this, it's generally respected lower than other forms of arcane study. There are no magical schools in [[The World/Dor'Balar\|Dor'Balar]], instead, the study of wizardry is either done independently from grimoires or through an apprenticeship from some craftsperson who happened to learn spells to aid in their work.
# Taboo

Warlocks wield the power of [[The World/Dor'Daedeloth\|Dor'Daedeloth]] and their demonic or fey patrons. At a price, these are the only spellcasters who regain their spell slots on a short rest, a powerful tool in [[The World/Dor'Balar\|Dor'Balar]]; however, this power comes at a price. Depending on the terms of their contract, warlocks can expect to give up their wealth, their agency, or even their souls. According to [[Church of the Divine Aspects\|Church]] doctrine, acquiring power in this way is deeply heretical, and obvious practitioners of these occult practices are shunned by normal society.

Artificers too are taboo in [[The World/Dor'Balar\|Dor'Balar]]. As mentioned in the [[Intro Material/Running The Game\|Running The Game]] page, magic items are sacred in this world and undeniably divine in nature. Artifice and the creation of magical items by mortal hands alone is blasphemy akin to creating life. With the knowledge to create true magic items lost in the [[The Ages/Third Age\|Third Age]], artificers must acquire their techniques in other ways, often through pacts with they fey or demons of [[The World/Dor'Daedeloth\|Dor'Daedeloth]]. By playing god in this way, artificers are ostracized by society and feared for their connection to [[The World/Dor'Daedeloth\|Dor'Daedeloth]].