---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/notes/dru-karmaz-act-1/","created":"2025-11-10T17:06:10.539-05:00","updated":"2025-11-11T15:12:46.290-05:00"}
---

# Session Description
The party travels from the capital city of [[Cities and Towns/Jkaverstelle/Kithraia/Kithraia\|Kithraia]] to the small arboreal town of [[Cities and Towns/Jkaverstelle/Dru-Karmaz/Dru-Karmaz\|Dru-Karmaz]] to investigate rumors of demons stalking the local woods. They arrive in town, have a run-in with the [[First Adventure/Ashers\|Ashers]] at the local brothel The Drowsy Maid, and begin their search for what's actually going on in the town.

The session extends from on October 18th-26th, 3713 ASC.
# In the Woods
The party makes camp in the woods at the edge of the [[Morkay Timberlands\|Morkay Timberlands]].
## Wolf Attack
On their fourth day of travel [[Players/Xander Amfrey\|Xander Amfrey]] takes first watch over the camp, but after hearing wolf howls in the distance, decides to wake up [[Players/Knight Eden\|Knight Eden]] for support. They are soon ambushed by a pack of hungry wolves as the party enters combat. The asleep players end up waking up one by one and all join the defense of their camp, at the end of which, [[Players/Eleanor Ego\|Eleanor Ego]]'s hooded canine bolts out of their tent and eviscerates the final fleeing wolf—in the process, revealing its unnatural visage through its shredded burlap coverings. 
## Tending to Wounds
[[Players/Eleanor Ego\|Eleanor Ego]] treats [[Players/Zazel Amray\|Zazel Amray]]'s wounds after the wolf attack, and Ego confides that the dog—named Id—is a recent development that she's looking to get rid of. At the same time, [[Players/Magnolia\|Magnolia]] and [[Players/Knight Eden\|Knight Eden]] butcher the wolves and take their pelts.
## Getting the Job
We see how two party members first learned of the job to travel to [[Cities and Towns/Jkaverstelle/Dru-Karmaz/Dru-Karmaz\|Dru-Karmaz]]. 

First, we see how [[Players/Eleanor Ego\|Eleanor Ego]] skulked into her office at [[Cities and Towns/Jkaverstelle/Kithraia/Roseström University\|Roseström University]], arriving late at night to avoid seeing anyone. After seeing a stack of letters accumulated during her long absence, she picks up the top message: a request from Chancellor [[Roogie Rosewood\|Roogie Rosewood]] that Ego assist with a mission raised to her by the [[Cities and Towns/Jkaverstelle/Kithraia/Honored Watch\|Honored Watch]]. Taking the opportunity [[Cities and Towns/Jkaverstelle/Kithraia/Kithraia\|Kithraia]], Ego immediately leaves the University to prepare for her outing.

Next, we find [[Players/Xander Amfrey\|Xander Amfrey]] laid across a bush outside the [[Amfrey\|Amfrey]] Estate in [[Cities and Towns/Jkaverstelle/Great Mound\|Great Mound]], having just tried to use the window to escape a meeting with his brother and recently appointed Head of House, [[Gregor Amfrey\|Gregor Amfrey]]. Gregor, peering down at Xander through the window, throws down a flask of Hair of the Dog and says that he has a mission for him. Apparently, their brother [[First Adventure/Landers Amfrey\|Landers Amfrey]] had been very upset to have lost the Head of House position to Gregor a few months back, and since then, has been reporting steadily lower lumber and profits from the [[Amfrey Lumber Company\|Amfrey Lumber Company]]. To ensure Landers' loyalties still lie with the family, Gregor wants Xander to investigate. 
# Dangerous Town
The party arrives in [[Cities and Towns/Jkaverstelle/Dru-Karmaz/Dru-Karmaz\|Dru-Karmaz]] and begins their investigation into the dangerous happenings of the town.
## The Ruined Home
Reaching the outskirts of [[Cities and Towns/Jkaverstelle/Dru-Karmaz/Dru-Karmaz\|Dru-Karmaz]], the party notices a destroyed home just off the main road. Upon further inspection, they see that the entire roof and walls were collapsed, they find no bodies among the wreckage. In addition, they see a dry X-symbol painted on the door with some muddy-brown substance; [[Players/Zazel Amray\|Zazel Amray]] identifies the mark as a symbol of [[The World/Divine Aspects/Urglan\|Urglan]], goddess of war.
## The Drowsy Maid
The party move through town, approaching the only building with any lights left on: a two-story structure named *The Drowsy Maid*. As [[Players/Zazel Amray\|Zazel Amray]] enters the building, the patrons and staff are initially uncomfortable, but settle down after the party presents [[Cities and Towns/Jkaverstelle/Dru-Karmaz/Letter to Kurinur Vra-Eklund\|Urthgar's letter]] and says that they were sent from [[Cities and Towns/Jkaverstelle/Kithraia/Kithraia\|Kithraia]] to help. The barkeep [[Gruldrum Runeshaper\|Gruldrum]] begins explaining the situation, about how the town has been facing nightly assaults from a Barlgura—a dangerous ape-like demon who can only be warded off by gryphon blood. And a group known as the [[First Adventure/Ashers\|Ashers]] recently arrived, selling gryphon blood and their clerical services to create these nightly wards.

Soon, two Ashers named [[Bruly Mensif\|Bruly]] and [[Fesh Ploughly\|Fesh]] arrive with the blood, but demand extra food, drink, and "services" in exchange for the ward. The party stands up to this, and the two Ashers move to leave with the blood; [[Players/Xander Amfrey\|Xander Amfrey]] then tries to pickpocket the substance, but is caught by Fesh who begins combat. After a quick bar-fight leaves the Ashers unconscious, [[Players/Zazel Amray\|Zazel Amray]] quickly draws the ward on their door before they all head upstairs to wait. Within the hour, the party hears thundering steps stalk the town, through the darkness seeing a ginormous 13ft tall furred create wielding a tree trunk destroy a building two doors down; but thankfully, the beast leaves The Drowsy Maid alone. 
## Asher Interrogation
In the morning, the party interrogates the two Asher thugs, and find out additional information about their organization, their leaders, and where they came from. [[Bruly Mensif\|Bruly]] swears he won't show his face around The Drowsy Maid again, and the party lets the two thugs go since, according to them, there'd be trouble if the two of them went missing. Still, the party comes away from the discussion with a distinct feeling that the two were hiding something.
## Feathered Friends
[[Players/Magnolia\|Magnolia]] casts Speak with Animals and enters the forest to search for clues. She ends up meeting a barred owl named [[Hootsifer\|Hootsifer]] who tells her about the ginormous "Red Beast" that stalks the woods at night and "follows the wolves." Magnolia asks Hootsifer to follow the beast at night and report back to her the next day; Hootsifer agrees, but asks that in return, Magnolia bless his child—a newborn owlet Magnolia needs to climb the 20ft tree to meet, which she does.